+++
title = "About Gnome again"
layout = "post"

+++

Linux Mint 12 just came out and I had to give it a try the other day.
Very nice piece work. There have been quite a few interesting changes
the Mint Contributers made to their Distro. So I am not at all surprised
about Mints steady rise in popularity.

Therefore I was very excited when I heard they made some changes to
Gnome 3 to make it more usable. Unfortunately what they did was just
adding a shell extension to Gnome 3 to give it a Gnome 2 like Taskbar.

It did not save me from getting absolutely frustrated by it. There is
just so much functionality missing and you can’t even blame it on an
early release, because they didn’t even add anything useful in Gnome 3.2
– they added web app integration…

Suddenly you can’t do anything with it anymore. The window manager is
minimal, you can only maximize or close windows. The desktops can only
be accessed by sequentially walking through a vertical list and if you
have more than one window on a desktop you never see a list of windows.
The panel is rock solid at the top of the screen, no way of moving it
around or changing its functionality. And don’t ask me about the
application menu, which apparently is meant to be accessed via
touchscreen because the buttons are humongous and searching for an
application is causing you to pick up your mouse and scroll all around a
grid that looks like is taken off the iPad.

So. Did we all suddenly migrate our Linux desktops onto tablets over
night and I did not realize? Do the Gnome people write their code on
WeTabs? What about the power users? What about having n×n desktops on
your screen? What about having two panels? What about
vertically/horizontally minimizing windows? What about having more than
just one window on a desktop and actually seeing the ones out of focus?
What about having have a panel that is auto-hidden. What about chioce?

I know they claim to have a new philosophy that too many options confuse
the user. But again – who do they think is using Gnome? Those who come
from Gnome 2 two have no problem with complicated technology – they are
using Linux! Those how may start using Linux might like the new look but
might eventually want to do more with it than what it can now? I realize
there is a gnome-tweak-tool, but that does not nearly cover what you
should expect.

Dear Gnome Designers, I know you put a lot of thought into Gnome 3 and
have a sound explanation for every change you make but how about this:
You ship Gnome 3 looking just the way it does now but you don’t make it
mandatory to keep it that way. The magic word in your case would be
‘Sane Defaults’. I’d like to be able to profit from GTK3 and the better
system integration and performance but I would also want use my computer
the way I liked to again. That was the original reason I switched to
Linux.

 

**Update**:

I forgot to actually publish this post. So this is not so up to date any
longer :S

